Add m6Anet, xPore and Bambu short tutorials (#23)
GoekeLab/sg-nex-data: docs/SG-NEx_m6Anet_tutorial.md

In this tutorial, we will perform m6A identification on the SG-NEx sample. We will use the Nanopore direct RNA-sequencing data of the A549 cell line from the SG-NEx project for this analysis. The A549 cell line was extracted from the lung tissues of a patient with lung cancer. A Python package known as **m6Anet**, will be used to determine m6A modification site in the cell line. <br>
**Note: This tutorial may take 15 minutes to complete.** 

## **Content**

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Data Access and Preparation](#data-access-and-preparation)
- [Running m6Anet](#running-m6anet)
- [Reference](#reference)

## **Installation**

m6Anet requires Python 3.8 (or later) to run. It can be installed through PyPI using the following command. Note: This command requires pip3 to be installed. 

```bash
pip install m6anet
```

Alternatively, it can be installed from our GitHub repository.

```bash
git clone https://github.com/GoekeLab/m6anet.git
cd m6anet
python setup.py install
cd ..  # return to the working directory 
```

## **Data Access and Preparation**

For this tutorial, we will use the data from the A549_directRNA_replicate6_run1 sample. The required data include:

> - feature values of the A549 sample. (json file)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- feature values of the A549 sample (json file), 
```

> - indexes of the feature values file. (index file)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- indexes of the feature values file (index file),
```

> - number of reads for each DRACH position. (readcount file)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- number of reads for each DRACH position (readcount file).
```

<br>

#### **Method Two:**
```bash
cd A549_directRNA_replicate6_run1 
 
# To download the json file
wget https://sg-nex-data.s3.ap-southeast-1.amazonaws.com/data/processed_data/m6Anet/SGNex_A549_directRNA_replicate6_run1/data.json  

# To download the index file
wget https://sg-nex-data.s3.ap-southeast-1.amazonaws.com/data/processed_data/m6Anet/SGNex_A549_directRNA_replicate6_run1/data.index

# To download the readcount file
wget https://sg-nex-data.s3.ap-southeast-1.amazonaws.com/data/processed_data/m6Anet/SGNex_A549_directRNA_replicate6_run1/data.readcount

# Exit the A549 directory to return to our working directory
cd ..
```

You may refer to this [page](https://github.com/GoekeLab/sg-nex-data/blob/update-docs-aws/docs/samples_with_RNAmod_data.tsv) for the list of URLs to access the processed data for m6Anet from different samples. 

## **Running m6Anet**

Now that all the required files are ready, we can proceed to run the m6Anet analysis. 

```bash
# Run m6Anet
m6anet-run_inference --input_dir ./A549_directRNA_replicate6_run1 --out_dir ./A549_directRNA_replicate6_run1 --infer_mod_rate --n_processes 4
```

> **Note: You can reduce the "n_processes" if you have lesser processes available in your machine. However, lowering the "n_processes" may increase the run time.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note: You can reduce the "n_processes" if you have lesser processes available in your machine. However, lowering the "n_processes" may increase the running time.**
```

> m6Anet returns a csv file `(data.result.csv.gz)` that contains the probability of modification as well as the modification stoichiometry for each candidate site. The first few lines of the file are shown below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
m6Anet returns a compressed csv file `(data.result.csv.gz)` that contains the modification probability and stoichiometry for each candidate site. The first few lines of the file are shown below.
```

<p align="center">
    <img src="../images/A549_directRNA_replicate6_run1_result.png" alt="result" width="800"/>
</p>

Please refer to the [m6Anet documentation](https://m6anet.readthedocs.io/en/latest/quickstart.html) for more information regarding the output file. 
<br>

> m6Anet also allows the pooling of replicates. It can be done by providing the file path to each replicate's folder containing the json, index and readcount files. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
m6Anet also allows the pooling of replicate samples. It can be done by providing the file path to each replicate sample's folder containing the json, index and readcount files. 
```

Example:
```
m6anet-run_inference --input_dir ./replicate1 ./replicate2 ./replicate3 --out_dir ./result --infer_mod_rate --n_processes 4
```
<br>

> #### **NOTE: This is a short tutorial to demonstrate the usage of m6Anet on the SG-NEx data. Please refer to the [m6Anet documentation](https://m6anet.readthedocs.io/en/latest/quickstart.html) for the complete workflow to identify m6A modification.** 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### **NOTE: This is a short tutorial to demonstrate the usage of m6Anet on the SG-NEx data. Please refer to the [m6Anet documentation](https://m6anet.readthedocs.io/en/latest/quickstart.html) for the complete workflow on identifying m6A modification with m6Anet.** 
```

<br>

> ### **Access to the required files for complete workflow** 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### **Access to the required files for the complete workflow** 
```

> If you wish to run the complete workflow of m6Anet, you can access all the required files (fast5, fastq and bam files) from the [SG-NEx S3 bucket](https://github.com/GoekeLab/sg-nex-data/blob/update-docs-aws/docs/samples.tsv). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you wish to run the complete workflow of m6Anet, you can find the access paths to all the required files (fast5, fastq and bam files) from the [SG-NEx S3 bucket](https://github.com/GoekeLab/sg-nex-data/blob/update-docs-aws/docs/samples.tsv). 
```

```bash
# Note: Please make sure to replace the "sample_alias" with your sample name

# To download the fast5 file
aws s3 sync --no-sign-request s3://sg-nex-data/data/sequencing_data_ont/fast5/<sample_alias> ./

# To download the fastq file
aws s3 sync --no-sign-request s3://sg-nex-data/data/sequencing_data_ont/fastq/<sample_alias> ./

# To download the bam file
aws s3 sync --no-sign-request s3://sg-nex-data/data/sequencing_data_ont/bam/transcriptome/<sample_alias> ./
```

> Meanwhile, you can also access the transcriptome fasta files and the gtf file (annotation file) using the following command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Meanwhile, you can also access the transcriptome fasta file and the gtf file (annotation file) using the following command.
```

Author: I think there are more than one fasta file ? One is the fasta itself and the other one is the index file

Reviewer: oh yes, that's correct, I think you can ignore this one then.

```bash 
# To download the transcriptome fasta file
aws s3 sync --no-sign-request s3://sg-nex-data/data/annotations/transcriptome_fasta ./ --exclude hg38*

# To download the gtf file
aws s3 cp --no-sign-request s3://sg-nex-data/data/annotations/gtf_file/Homo_sapiens.GRCh38.91.gtf ./
```

> Alternatively, you can download the files with their respective [URLs](https://github.com/GoekeLab/sg-nex-data/blob/update-docs-aws/docs/samples.tsv). 

Reviewer: I don't think annotation access file is provided in the samples.tsv, maybe direct to the browser link is better?

```suggestion
Alternatively, you can download the files from the browser directly (http://sg-nex-data.s3-website-ap-southeast-1.amazonaws.com/). 
```
